Overview Explanation:

Participant data with an even Research ID value experienced the control condition.
Participant data with an odd Research ID value experienced the experimental (portals) condition. 

If more explanation is needed, please email dlan133@aucklanduni.ac.nz or dominiklangenawka@gmail.com with questions.



Prestudy Explanation:

The spreadsheet called "prestudy_raw.csv" contains the raw information downloaded from Qualtrics regarding the prestudy survey responses. A viewable pdf version of the prestudy survey can be found in the "Prestudy-Survey.pdf" file. The "prestudy.csv" file is a modified version of the "prestudy_raw.csv" that is read by the "_Analyser.py" script. The first row in the "prestudy.csv" contains the question identifier (used only by Qualtrics) per question. The second row contains the text prompted to the user per question. The third row contains a description (add manually) of what the values in each column represent (e.g the range of a Likert scale).

The following columns are analysed from the "prestudy.csv" file:
A: Research ID.
C: Benchmark Memory Test level.



Poststudy Explanation:

The spreadsheet called "poststudy_raw.csv" contains the raw information downloaded from Qualtrics regarding the poststudy survey responses. A viewable pdf version of the poststudy survey can be found in the "poststudy-Survey.pdf" file. The "poststudy.csv" file is a modified version of the "poststudy_raw.csv" that is read by the "_Analyser.py" script. The first row in the "poststudy.csv" contains the question identifier (used only by Qualtrics) per question. The second row contains the text prompted to the user per question. The third row contains a description (add manually) of what the values in each column represent (e.g the range of a Likert scale). 

Note that for some reason, Qualtrics added a negative sign to all values of Likert-scale questions. 

The following contains categories of columns analysed from the "prestudy.csv" file:
A: Research ID.
B, D, G to K: Demographics.
R to AC: Object Memory questions regarding real objects in the museum.
AD to BA: Object Memory questions regarding distractors in the museum (i.e objects that were not actually in the museum).
BB: Open-ended Object Memory question.
BC to BE: Quantitative feedback questions about the study.


Spatial Testing Explanation:

The "spatial_raw.zip" file contains images for each participants' spatial-test/rooms-diagram. Each of the "Spatial_#.txt" files is a data file relating to a particular participant's user study. The "Spatial_Truth.txt" file contains the ground truth of the spatial test (i.e what the museum room layout actually was).

Spatial ".txt" files contain multiple lines of information similar to an adjacency list. Each line has a room name, followed by a "=" character. In a given line, comma seperated room names to the right of the "=" correspond to rooms that were connected to the room on the left of the "=" character. These ".txt" files were manually generated by the researchers by viewing each of the participant's spatial images (therefore, there may be some mistakes). Note that written connections within the ".txt" are correctly read by the "_Analyser.py" script regardless of if they have two-way or one way connections. For example:
"
A=B
B=A
"
Is the same as:
"
A=B
B=
"
Additionally, if there are no rooms to the right of the "=", no error occurs in the "_Analyser.py".



Game Data Explanation:

Each of the "#.dat" and "#.txt" files is a data file relating to a particular participant's user study. The number in these files refer to a participant's research ID.
The ".dat" file type is an encoded save file that the SaveAndLoad script in this Unity project can directly read and write to as a custom class (LogData class).
The ".txt" file type displays information from the LogData class in a readable text format. This ".txt" file is automatically generated when a LogData class is saved in Unity via the SaveAndLoad script.

The ".txt" files contain data on various lines. The following explains the comma-seperated information stored per line:
- Time index in seconds since the start of recording (as float),
- X-axis information of the head's position at the given time index (as float, originated from Vector3),
- Y-axis information of the head's position at the given time index (as float, originated from Vector3),
- Z-axis information of the head's position at the given time index (as float, originated from Vector3),
- X-axis information of the head's rotation at the given time index (as float, originated from Quaternion),
- Y-axis information of the head's rotation at the given time index (as float, originated from Quaternion),
- Z-axis information of the head's rotation at the given time index (as float, originated from Quaternion),
- W-axis information of the head's rotation at the given time index (as float, originated from Quaternion)
The time index from line to line should always increase. Note that for a Unity Vector3, 1 unit is 1 meter.

Large distances in head position between subsequent time indexes indicate that a user traveled through a portal. Keep this in mind if you plan to infer certain results, such as total distance traveled.
Each room in the virtual museum is 3 meters wide in the x-axis and 6 meters wide in the z-axis.
The following list contains the room-grid-position of the center of each room:
- "Start"           ,   0,  0
- "Dinosaur"        ,   0,  1
- "Egypt"           ,   0,  2
- "Cherry Blossom"  ,   1,  2
- "Clocks"          ,  -1,  3
- "Signs"           ,   0,  3
- "Paintings"       ,   1,  3
- "Volcano"         ,  -1,  4
- "Aquarium"        ,   1,  4
- "Giant Ladybug"   ,  -1,  5
- "Sundial"         ,   0,  5
- "Statues"         ,   1,  5
- "Ice Cube"        ,  -1,  6
- "Mammoth"         ,   0,  6
- "Pond"            ,   1,  6
- "Pots"            ,  -1,  7
- "Bird Nest"       ,   0,  7
- "Beach"           ,  -1,  8
- "Face"            ,   0,  8
- "End"             ,   0,  9
To get the real position in meters of each room*, multiply the first axis of the room-grid-position by 3, and the second axis by 6. 
*Note that in the Portals condition, the x and z positions of all rooms in Unity were multiplied by 100 (for various reasons).
With a participant's log data, as well as the bounds and position of each room, we can infer new data, such as how many rooms a participant visited and for how long they visited in total.

Example: (Infering what room a participant is in at a given time)

Line from logdata: 27.53, 1.05, 1.65, 11.72, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 1.0
We can infer that the user was at position (1.05, 1.65, 11.72) 27.53 seconds into the experiment.

Room-Grid-Position: Egypt = 0, 2
Real-Position of room (in the control non-portals condition): Egypt = 0 * 3, 2 * 6 = Vector3(0 * 3, 0, 2 * 6) = Vector3(0, 0, 12)
Room size: 3m, 6m
Room bounds: ±3, ±6
User-position-x check: 1.05 is within ±3 of 0
User-position-z check: 11.72 is within ±6 of 12
We can infer that the user was in the Egypt room 27.53 seconds into the experiment.

Note that every second room in the portal condition (i.e when the sum of a room's x & y/z grid position is odd) was rotated by 180 degrees within Unity. Keep this in mind if you want to detect whether someone looked in a specific direction (e.g. right, towards the dinosaur) relative to the room.